# IPEO_Species_Distribution_Modeling
This repository contains different jupyter notebooks training and evaluating species distribution models using single-modal as well as multimodal approaches. The data include climate data, Landsat timeseries and satellite imagery and need to be added to the cloned repositories' top-level folder as a folder called `data`.

Trained models have been uploaded using `git LFS` and are available as `.pth` files. Therefore, the Git extension LFS needs to be installed and enabled in the repository. After cloning, run `git lfs pull` to download the actual model files.

The `inference.ipynb` notebook in the `Inference` folder imports the model weights for the multimodal model trained for the second approach to multimodal modeling (see project report) and generates predictions for the sample with index 100 in the test set. The environment requirements to run this file are specified in the `environment.yml` file. The current working directory needs to be adapted to match the repositories' top-level folder. In order to test other models, the model as well as the path to the model weights can be adapted according to the model architecture and the model weights found in the corresponding subfolder.

The files included in the folder `Models` which show the training process should be cloned to a Google Drive and then run in Google Colab, where the `base_path` variable/the current working directory needs to be adapted to match the repositories' top-level folder. Please note that when simply downloading the repository, `.pth` files will not contain the actual model weights. The file will be replaced by a newly trained model after running the corresponding notebook. It is important to download the repository as a whole or recreate the same structure of folders as plots and models generated during training will be placed in corresponding subfolders.

